## whats http-status 302

from RFC 1945 HTTP/1.0 May 1996

302 Moved Temporarily (临时性重定向)

The requested resource resides temporarily under a different URL.
Since the redirection may be altered on occasion, the client should
continue to use the Request-URI for future requests.

The URL must be given by the Location field in the response. Unless
it was a HEAD request, the Entity-Body of the response should
contain a short note with a hyperlink to the new URI(s).

If the 302 status code is received in response to a request using
the POST method, the user agent must not automatically redirect the
request unless it can be confirmed by the user, since this might
change the conditions under which the request was issued.

       Note: When automatically redirecting a POST request after
       receiving a 302 status code, some existing user agents will
       erroneously change it into a GET request.
       (一些浏览器在未询问用户的情况下自动将POST请求重定向为GET请求)

## whats http-status 303

from RFC 2616 HTTP/1.1 June 1999

303 See Other (临时性重定向))

The response to the request can be found under a different URI and
SHOULD be retrieved using a GET method on that resource. This method
exists primarily to allow the output of a POST-activated script to
redirect the user agent to a selected resource. The new URI is not a
substitute reference for the originally requested resource. The 303
response MUST NOT be cached, but the response to the second
(redirected) request might be cacheable.

The different URI SHOULD be given by the Location field in the
response. Unless the request method was HEAD, the entity of the
response SHOULD contain a short hypertext note with a hyperlink to
the new URI(s).

      Note: Many pre-HTTP/1.1 user agents do not understand the 303
      status. When interoperability with such clients is a concern, the
      302 status code may be used instead, since most user agents react
      to a 302 response as described here for 303.

## whats http-status 307

from RFC 2616 HTTP/1.1 June 1999

307 Temporary Redirect (临时性重定向)

The requested resource resides temporarily under a different URI.
Since the redirection MAY be altered on occasion, the client SHOULD
continue to use the Request-URI for future requests. This response
is only cacheable if indicated by a Cache-Control or Expires header
field.

The temporary URI SHOULD be given by the Location field in the
response. Unless the request method was HEAD, the entity of the
response SHOULD contain a short hypertext note with a hyperlink to
the new URI(s) , since many pre-HTTP/1.1 user agents do not
understand the 307 status. Therefore, the note SHOULD contain the
information necessary for a user to repeat the original request on
the new URI.

      If the 307 status code is received in response to a request other
      than GET or HEAD, the user agent MUST NOT automatically redirect the
      request unless it can be confirmed by the user, since this might
      change the conditions under which the request was issued.

## What's the difference

- 302 是 http/1.0 协议,303 和 307 是 http/1.1 协议,本质上 303 和 307 是对 HTTP1.0 中的 302 状态码的细化

- 302 和 303 存在问题:一些浏览器在未询问用户的情况下自动将 POST 请求重定向为 GET 请求

- 307 需要跟用户询问是否应该在新 URI 上发起 POST 请求 (chrome 测试发现 response header 设置 Location 域会自动向该 url 发起 POST 请求)，也就是说，307 是不会把 POST 转为 GET.

## 简单实践

[http-302](./code/302-diff-307/302.js)

[http-307](./code/302-diff-307/307.js)

<!-- HTTP 幂等方法，是指无论调用多少次都不会有不同结果的 HTTP 方法。不管你调用一次，还是调用一百次，一千次，结果都是相同的。

HTTP POST 方法是一个非幂等方法，因为调用多次，都将产生新的资源。因为它会对资源本身产生影响，每次调用都会有新的资源产生，因此不满足幂等性。

幂等性关注的是对资源造成的影响，而非请求返回的结果。

Methods can also have the property of "idempotence" in that (aside from error or expiration issues) the side-effects of N > 0 identical requests is the same as for a single. 《rfc2616 - 9.1.2 Idempotent Methods》

一般来说，GET、OPTIONS、HEAD、DELETE 这些请求方法都是幂等的，因为对服务器资源都是没有影响的，或是产生的影响是一致的。像 POST、PUT、PATCH 这些请求方法一般都是非幂等的。

Methods can also have the property of "idempotence" in that (aside
from error or expiration issues) the side-effects of N > 0 identical
requests is the same as for a single request. The methods GET, HEAD,
PUT and DELETE share this property. Also, the methods OPTIONS and
TRACE SHOULD NOT have side effects, and so are inherently idempotent.

However, it is possible that a sequence of several requests is non-
idempotent, even if all of the methods executed in that sequence are
idempotent. (A sequence is idempotent if a single execution of the
entire sequence always yields a result that is not changed by a
reexecution of all, or part, of that sequence.) For example, a
sequence is non-idempotent if its result depends on a value that is
later modified in the same sequence.

A sequence that never has side effects is idempotent, by definition
(provided that no concurrent operations are being executed on the
same set of resources). -->
